STEVE: WHEN I SPOKE WITH A
BACKDROP, OUR CONVERSATION
FOCUSED ON JOBS AND RESCALING
THE AMERICAN WORKFORCE.
THE OTHER IMPORTANT PART FOCUSED
ON FAMILIES.
WATCH.
>> THESE POLICIES ARE WORKING
AND WORKING FOR THE PEOPLE WHOSE
JOBS WERE THE MOST VULNERABLE
AND THOSE OF PEOPLE WERE TRYING
TO HELP.
WE ARE ALSO TRYING TO HELP WITH
OUR WORKING FAMILY AGENDA BY
RECOGNIZING THE REALITIES OF
MODERN WORKING FAMILIES IN THE
ENORMOUS COST OF CHILDCARE FOR
THOSE FAMILIES AND THE NECESSITY
OF CHILDCARE TO FAMILIES WHO
NEED TWO INCOMES OR ARE SINGLE
PARENTS.
THEN OF COURSE THE IMPORTANCE OF
CHILDREN OF CHILDCARE IN EARLY
CHILDHOOD EDUCATION.
STEVE: THERE'S A LOT OF
SUBSTANCE HERE BUT LET'S PUT UP
THE ELEMENTS OF IVANKA TRUMP'S
PROFAMILY AGENDA, DOUBLING THE
CHILD TAX CREDIT, PUSHING FOR
PAID PARENTAL LEAVE AND WANT TO
SHOW YOU HOW IMPORTANT FAMILY IS
BUT ONE OF THE CENTRAL POINT IN
A MESSAGE WAS UPWARD MOBILITY.
LOOK AT THIS DATA.
IT ANALYZES SOCIAL MOBILITY BY
FAMILY STABILITY.
IF YOU LOOK AT THAT ONE IT IS A
REALLY IMPORTANT BUSINESS ON
BENEFITS OF MARRIAGE.
IF YOU LOOK THERE THAT THE
MARRIAGE RATES KEEP PARENTS
TOGETHER DEPENDING ON WHETHER
THEY ARE COHABITING OR MARRIED
IS A HUGE FACTOR.
74% OF MARRIED PARENTS STAY
TOGETHER COMPARED TO 24% FOR
COUPLES WHO ARE COHABITING.
GET THE DATA WHO IS RISING UP
AND CAN SCALE IT TURNS OUT
SOMEONE BORN IN THE BOTTOM 20%
OF THE INCOME DISTRIBUTION, IF
THE PARENTS ARE NOT MARRIED AND
THEY WILL BE MUCH MORE LIKELY TO
STAY THERE.
50% THEY THERE.
IT'S A HUGE DIFFERENCE COMPARED
TO PEOPLE BORN IN A FAMILY WITH
A STABLE PARENTAL BACKGROUND.
FAMILY POLICY IS NOT SOFT,
SEPARATE THINGS BUT RIGHT AT THE
HEART OF JOBS AND A COMIC IN ITS
FANTASTIC TO SEE THE
ADMINISTRATION RECOGNIZES IN A
SUBSTANTIVE WAY.
JOINING US TO DISCUSS THIS,
EXECUTIVE EDITOR OF THE
FEDERALIST AND FELLOW FOR THE
HEARTLAND INSTITUTE.
WE JUST INTRODUCED BY TERKEL
CARLSON AND THEN I'VE BEEN
VORACIOUSLY CONSUMING EVERYTHING
EVEN WRITING AND I LOVE IT.
ONE PARTICULAR THING THAT I WANT
TO HEAR FROM YOU ABOUT WITCHES A
PIECE YOU WROTE ABOUT HOW YOU
CAN COMBINE WHAT MOTHERS WANT TO
DO WHICH IS BE THERE FOR THEIR
CHILDREN BUT ALSO MEET THEIR
DESIRE TO BE IN THE WORKFORCE
WITH MUCH MORE POSSIBLE WORKING
ARRANGEMENTS.
TALK ABOUT THAT.
>> SURE, I FOUND PARTICULARLY IN
MY OWN LIFE AS I HAD CHILDREN
AND I HAVE FIVE, IT'S A
WONDERFUL BLESSING TO FIND
EMPLOYERS FOR FLEXIBLE AND
WILLING TO WORK WITH ME BECAUSE
THEY VALUE MY SKILLS AS A WORKER
AS WELL AS THE AS A WHOLE
PERSON.
I'M A MOTHER AND COMMITTED TO MY
CHILDREN.
I MISS SPENDING A LARGE PORTION
OF MY DATE WITH MY CHILDREN AND
I HAVE A ONE -YEAR-OLD, THREE,
FIVE -YEAR-OLD INTO OLDER
SCHOOL-AGE KIDS.
I KNOW THEY NEED ME TO BE THERE
WITH THEM TO HAVE AN OPTIMAL
DEVELOPMENT.
MY EMPLOYERS HAVE LOVELY
FLEXIBLE WORK AND I WORK NIGHTS
AND WEEKENDS IN COUPLE HOURS A
WEEK WITH A BABYSITTER AND THAT
ALLOWED ME TO DO TWO THINGS I
LOVE.
MORE EMPLOYERS SHOULD BE
THINKING ABOUT THAT AND WHEN WE
HEAR THEY'RE TRYING TO ATTRACT
WOMEN THEY FOCUS ON WEIRD THINGS
LIKE FREEZING THEIR EGGS THAT
CAN HAVE DAMAGE TO WOMEN'S
BODIES AND THINK IT DAMAGES THE
CULTURE CONVERSATION BECAUSE IT
DOESN'T SAY TO THEM AND WE VALUE
YOU AS YOU ARE AND WOMEN MAKE
BABIES AND THAT IS OKAY AND LOVE
THAT BECAUSE IT'S GOOD FOR
SOCIETY.
THERE ARE PROFAMILY AND PRO-
WOMEN WAYS AND ANTI- FAMILY AND
ANTI- WAYS OF ARRANGING WORK.
WE SHOW SUPPORT.
STEVE: SARAH, TO FOLLOW FROM
THAT WE JUST SAW ALTHOUGH I
PRAISED HER TECH POLICY ALONG
WITH WORN HEAD OF POLICY ON
CHILDCARE THAT SOUNDED NOT AT
ALL THE DIRECTION WE SHOULD BE
MOVING.
>> THAT CERTAINLY IS THE DEBATE.
JOY BRINGS UP SOMETHING THAT IS
DEAR TO MY HEART.
I HAVE A FLEXIBLE SCHEDULE AND
WE HAD CHILDREN AND SIX CHILDREN
FROM OLDER TO YOUNGER AND HAVE
TO TAKE CARE OF MANAGING THEM
AND AS A MOM AND I HAVE A
FLEXIBLE SCHEDULE I'VE CHOSEN AT
THIS POINT IN MY CAREER TO GO
INDEPENDENT AND WORK HERE WITH
FOX AS A CONTRIBUTOR TO DO MY
WRITING BUT WHEN I THINK ABOUT
THIS DEBATE ON THE SCALE FOR
WOMEN ALL ACROSS THE COUNTRY I'M
ALSO THINKING REALISTICALLY.
I SPOKE EARLIER WHEN WE TALKED
ABOUT MY MOTHER AND AFTER MY
FATHER PASSED AWAY SHE BECAME A
SINGLE MOM AND ENDED UP WORKING
AND DID NOT HAVE A COLLEGE
DEGREE BUT WORKED IN A FACTORY
FOR A WHILE AND PUTTING AIRPLANE
PARTS TOGETHER BUT REMEMBER HOW
DIFFICULT IT WAS TO FIND THAT
TIME TO BALANCE CHILDREN IN THE
RIGHT JOBS TO BALANCE BOTH OF
US, MY BROTHER AND I AS WELL AS
HER JOB IN BRINGING MONEY AND
SUPPORTING US SO WE WOULD HAVE A
LIFE.
I THINK WHAT JOY IS SAYING IS SO
TRUE.
WERE AT A NEW LEVEL IN SOCIETY
OR WE HAVE TO HONOR WOMEN AS
WELL AS WHAT WE CAN DO TO MOVE
THEM FORWARD IN THE WORKPLACE BY
HONORING WHO WE ARE AND OUR
BODIES ON THE ABILITY TO HAVE
CHILDREN BUT LOOK AT OTHER
ISSUES.
I DON'T AGREE WITH ELIZABETH
WARREN'S PLANS ON USING THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
STEVE: SORRY TO CUT YOU OFF BUT
HENRY, I LIKE YOUR POLITICAL
TAKE ON THIS.
THAT AGENDA CHILDCARE, CHILD TAX
CREDIT IS NOT TRADITIONAL
REPUBLICAN CONSERVATIVE POLICY.
I WOULD SAY IT'S POSITIVE
POPULISM.
>> EXACTLY THE SORT OF THING
THAT FAMILIES TALK ABOUT AROUND
THE DINNER TABLE.
SORT OF THING REPUBLICANS HAVE
BEEN AFRAID TO TALK ABOUT THE
NEED TO.
YOU TALK ABOUT BLUE-COLLAR
FAMILIES WHO VOTED FOR TRUMP FOR
REPUBLICAN AND THEY NEED THAT
FLEXIBILITY OR COULD BENEFIT
FROM MORE CHILD TAX CREDITS AND
THE WAY SHE WANTS.
TALKING TO MODERATE EDUCATED
MOMS WOULD ALSO BLUE-COLLAR MOMS
AND DADS THAT THIS IS EXACTLY
WHERE REPUBLICANS NEED TO BE
TALKING AND HAVE NOT BEEN
TALKING AND SHE'S HELPING TO
LEAD THE WAY.
>> I THINK WERE HAVING AN
ELITIST CONVERSATION SO THE
MAJORITY OF KIDS DON'T GET TO GO
OFF IN TWO-PARENT HOMES.
AT THE MUCH BROADER CONVERSATION
AND SAD BUT THE THOUGHT THAT
EVERY AMERICAN GOING UP OR HAVE
A HUSBAND TO SUPPORT THEM IS NOT
REALITY.
STEVE: WE HAVE THE DATA ON THAT.
IT'S APPROACHING THE POINT WHERE
YOU GOT HOUSEHOLDS WHERE THE
WOMEN ARE THE EARNER.
>> THAT'S WHY I LIKE IVANKA
PUSHING FOR PARENTAL LEAVE.
I WOULD SAY THE GIG ECONOMY IS
NOT ABOUT WOMEN BUT THE DAD WHO
WANTS TO STAY AT HOME BUT THE
REALITY IS A MUCH BIGGER ISSUE
IS THAT THE NUMBER OF CHILDREN
GROWING UP IN SINGLE PARENT
HOMES IS GREATER THEN MARRIED
HOMES AT THIS POINT.
MARRIAGE HAS BECOME AN ELITE
INSTITUTION AND THAT IS NOT GOOD
FOR SOCIETY.
STEVE: IS A HUGE ISSUE.
I WANT TO COME BACK TO THE FINAL
WORD BECAUSE THAT'S AT THE HEART
OF THIS.
YOU CLOSE OUT.
>> WHAT IS MISSING FROM THE
CONVERSATION WERE HAVING ABOUT
DAYCARE AND PAID LEAVE IS THE
FACT THAT IT'S AND COMFORTABLE
THE YOUNG CHILDREN NEED THEIR
MOTHER TO FOCUS ON THEIR
ENERGIES ON THEM.
THAT IS SOMETHING NEITHER
DAYCARE CAN PROVIDE A CHILD BUT
THE CHILD'S EMOTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT AND CHILD
INTELLECTUAL DEVELOPMENT AND
THEIR SENSE OF SECURITY FOR THE
REST OF THEIR LIFE IS CREATED BY
HAVING MOM FOCUSING ON THEM FOR
THE FIRST THREE, FIVE YEARS OF
LIFE AND THAT IS SUBSIDIZING
FAMILY SEPARATION TO DAYCARE AND
OTHER POLICIES BUT WE NEED TO
FOCUS ON STRENGTHENING FAMILIES
AND FAMILIES BEING RESPONSIBLE
FOR THEIR OWN KIDS INDICATING
THAT MESSAGE OTHER THAN
SUBSIDIZING FAMILY SEPARATION
BUT THAT'S ONLY BAD FOR KIDS AND
THE SOCIOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT
RESEARCH EMPHASIZES THAT.
THAT'S BEEN MISSING FROM THE
HIGH LEVEL AMORTIZATION.
YOU CAN SUBSTITUTE CARE FOR
CHILDREN AND IT IS NOT POSSIBLE.
>> YOU PUT IT ON THE AGENDA.
JOY, I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO
TALKING TO YOU MORE ABOUT THIS